Q: What is a data lake?
A: A data lake is a scalable central repository of large quantities and varieties of data, both structured and unstructured. Data lakes enable you to manage the full lifecycle of your data. The first step of building a data lake is ingesting and cataloging data from a variety of sources. The data is then enriched, combined, and cleaned before analysis. This makes it easy to discover and analyze the data with direct queries, visualization, and machine learning. Data lakes complement traditional data warehouses, providing more flexibility, cost-effectiveness, and scalability for ingestion, storage, transformation, and analysis of your data. The traditional challenges around the construction and maintenance of data warehouses and limitations in the types of analysis can be overcome using data lakes.
Read more about "What is a data lake?"
Q: What is AWS Lake Formation?
A: Lake Formation is an integrated data lake service that makes it easy for you to ingest, clean, catalog, transform, and secure your data and make it available for analysis and machine learning. Lake Formation gives you a central console where you can discover data sources, set up transformation jobs to move data to an Amazon S3 data lake, remove duplicates and match records, catalog data for access by analytic tools, configure data access and security policies, and audit and control access from AWS analytic and machine learning services. Lake Formation automatically configures underlying AWS services, including S3, AWS Glue, AWS IAM, AWS KMS, Amazon Athena, Amazon Redshift, and Amazon EMR for Apache Spark, to ensure compliance with your defined policies. If you’ve set up transformation jobs spanning AWS services, Lake Formation configures the flows, centralizes their orchestration, and lets you monitor the execution of your jobs. With Lake Formation, you can configure and manage your data lake without manually integrating multiple underlying AWS services.
Q: Why should I use Lake Formation to build my data lake?
A: Lake Formation makes it easy to build, secure, and manage your AWS data lake. Lake Formation integrates with underlying AWS security, storage, analysis, and machine learning services and automatically configures them to comply with your centrally defined access policies; and gives you a single console to monitor your jobs and data transformation and analytic workflows.
Lake Formation can manage data ingestion jobs via AWS Glue. As data comes in, it is automatically classified and relevant data definitions, schema, and metadata is stored in the central data catalog. AWS Glue also converts your data to your choice of open data formats to be stored in S3 and cleans your data to remove duplicates and link records across data sets. Once your data is in your S3 data lake, you can define access policies, including table and column level access controls, and enforce encryption for data at rest. You can then use a wide variety of AWS analytic and machine learning services to access your data lake. All access is secured, governed, and auditable. You can also connect your own analytic tools to the data lake using Lake Formation’s JDBC drivers.
With Lake Formation, it's easy to create and manage your data lake without having to configure and integrate each underlying AWS service.
Q: Can I see a presentation on AWS Lake Formation?
A: Yes, you can watch the full recording of the "Intro to AWS Lake Formation" session from re:Invent.
Q: What kind of problems does the FindMatches ML Transform solve?
A: FindMatches generally solves Record Linkage and Data Deduplication problems. Deduplication is what you have to do when you are trying to identify records in a database which are conceptually “the same”, but for which you have separate records. This problem is trivial if duplicate records can be identified by a unique key (for instance if products can be uniquely identified by a UPC Code), but becomes very challenging when you have to do a “fuzzy match”.
Record linkage is basically the same problem as data deduplication under the hood, but this term usually means that you are doing a “fuzzy join” of two databases that do not share a unique key rather than deduplicating a single database. As an example, consider the problem of matching a large database of customers to a small database of known fraudsters. FindMatches can be used on both record linkage and deduplication problems.
For instance, Lake Formation's FindMatches ML Transform can help you with the following problems:
Q: How does Lake Formation deduplicate my data?
A: Lake Formation's FindMatches ML Transform makes it easy to find and link records that refer to the same entity but don’t share a reliable identifier. Before FindMatches, developers would commonly solve data-matching problems deterministically, by writing huge numbers of hand-tuned rules. FindMatches uses machine learning algorithms behind the scenes to learn how to match records according to each developer's own business criteria. FindMatches first identifies records for the customer to label as to whether they match or do not match and then uses machine learning to create an ML Transform. Customers can then execute this Transform on their database to find matching records or they can ask FindMatches to give them additional records to label to push their ML Transform to higher levels of accuracy.
Q: What are ML Transforms?
A: ML Transforms provide a destination for creating and managing machine-learned transforms. Once created and trained, these ML Transforms can then be executed in standard AWS Glue scripts. Customers select a particular algorithm (for example, the FindMatches ML Transform) and input datasets and training examples, and the tuning parameters needed by that algorithm. AWS Lake Formation uses those inputs to build an ML Transform that can be incorporated into a normal ETL Job workflow.
Q: How do ML Transforms work?
A: Lake Formation includes specialized ML-based dataset transformation algorithms customers can use to create their own ML Transforms. These include record de-duplication and match finding.
Customers start by navigating to the ML Transforms tab in the Lake Formation console (or using the ML Transforms service endpoints or accessing ML Transforms training via CLI) to create their first ML transform model. The ML Transforms tab provides a user-friendly view for management of user transforms. ML Transforms require distinct workflow requirements from other transforms, including the need for separate training, parameter tuning, and execution workflows; the need for estimating the quality metrics of generated transformations; and the need to manage and collect additional truth labels for training and active learning.
To create an ML transform via the console, customers first select the transform type (such as Record Deduplication or Record Matching) and provide the appropriate data sources previously discovered in Data Catalog. Depending on the transform, customers may then be asked to provide ground truth label data for training or additional parameters. Customers can monitor the status of their training jobs and view quality metrics for each transform. (Quality metrics are reported using a hold-out set of the customer-provided label data.)
Once satisfied with the performance, customers can promote ML Transforms models for use in production. ML Transforms can then be used during ETL workflows, both in code autogenerated by the service and in user-defined scripts submitted with other jobs, similar to pre-built transforms offered in AWS Glue libraries.
Q: How does Lake Formation relate to other AWS services?
A: Lake Formation integrates with AWS services including S3, AWS Glue, IAM, KMS, Athena, Redshift, and EMR for Apache Spark. Lake Formation can ingest data from these sources, understand their formats, and make data clean and queryable. Lake Formation configures the flows, centralizes their orchestration, and lets you monitor the execution of your jobs.
Read more about "Data Lakes and Analytics on AWS" including how to build a customized data lake.
Q: How does Lake Formation relate to AWS Glue?